That sinkhole
brought us to L.A.
Hey.
[men grunting]
[dramatic music]
I know who took them.
I remember stories about
a violent group of people
that are called the Exiles.
We're gonna get them back.
I promise.
Mary Beth? Mom?
[crying]
No, no.
Paara and her people
have brought us food.
My people are anxious for
us to return with Silas.
We still need Silas.
We just need
a little more time.
Trust me.
You know that I do.
That's amazing.
This is our way
into the building.
Scott.
You are never going to
believe what happened.
We have to find a way out.
If we take out the guards,
sneak out through the gate,
will you help us, Virgil?
I'll see what I can do.
I let you go.
That was a mistake.
Silas is bringing
me to the Exile.
You drugged me.
This will get you
out of the caves.
It's a map.
Go, get your family back.
[light music]
♪
Hi.
It's not exactly
how I pictured
our first night back together.
[laughs] Me neither.
♪
[keys jangling]
Everybody, get up
and get to work!
[door opens]
Let's go.
We have to find
Virgil, see if he's talked
to the other prisoners.
We wanna get out of here,
we need help.
[dramatic music]
♪
You all have one job
and one job only:
find this rock.
If you disobey us,
there will be consequences.
But we're not unreasonable.
Do as we say, and you'll
have food, shelter,
protection from animals.
One day, you may even
appreciate that we found you.
Get them to tunnel six.
- Move it right now!
Hurry up! Move it!
[whip cracks]
[shouting]
- Come on, move it.
Come on, everybody! Move it!
[shouting]
- Everybody, let's go!
- Come on, move it!
Honestly, I've
never seen anything
more magnificent in my life.
Aldridge and I were face to
face with a herd of mastodons.
All we could do was run.
I made it to a cave where
they couldn't chase after us.
I went in first.
I thought she was
right behind me,
but when I turned around,
she was gone.
Wait, hold on.
She's dead?
No, there wasn't a body.
She just was not there.
I searched everywhere.
But when I couldn't find her,
I came back to the clearing.
Interesting story, Scott.
Damn it.
Aldridge is the only one
who might be able to help
bring Riley and Josh back.
And you have no
idea where she went?
I wish I had better news,
but no, I don't.
Scott, listen.
Did she say anything to you
about a building?
Silas said that's where
she might be headed.
A building?
What, down here?
That's incredible.
But no, she didn't
say that to me.
Come on, dude.
You were with her for days.
She just said nothing
about her plans?
Bro, the woman
is extremely cagey, OK?
I have to agree there.
If you remember anything
else, any small detail,
you tell me right away.
Oh, hey.
We haven't officially met yet.
You might have picked this up
from context, but I'm Scott.
Yeah, I figured that out.
I'm Izzy.
- I know.
Josh and I are basically
bros at this point.
We clicked right away.
He's a good dude.
He said that you were
the brains of the family.
- He did?
- Yeah.
I still can't
believe he's gone.
One minute, he and Riley
were here,
and the next they're in 1988.
You know, I didn't realize
how much I would miss him.
He's gonna be OK.
Is he, though?
Yeah.
I mean, OK, since
he's been down here,
Josh has survived a wolf
attack, a monster of a storm,
and being chased out
of an ancient fort.
So I'm pretty sure he
could make it in 1988.
Worst case scenario,
he comes back with a mullet.
[laughs]
You know,
strangely I can--
I can totally see
him with a mullet.
- [laughs]
- Look.
[eerie music]
Who are they?
Oh, that's Paara
and her villagers.
They're friends,
so nothing to worry about.
Are you sure about that?
They're here for Silas.
Let me talk to Paara.
Paara.
Where is he, Ty?
Can we have
a moment in private?
Anything you say to her,
you can say to us.
It's OK, Joseph.
He isn't here, is he?
No, he's not.
It was out of our control.
Eve and Levi have been taken.
Silas was the only
one who could help.
He's out looking for
them with Eve's husband.
Eve's husband?
You mean Isaiah?
His name's Gavin, but yeah.
He's back.
I'm sorry, but this
doesn't change anything.
We gave you food and supplies.
We helped you.
And you promised us
Silas would be returned
to stand for his actions.
And he will the moment
that they're back.
My people warned me again
and again about taking
the word of the sky people.
What am I supposed
to tell them now?
Tell them that you'll
give me a little more time.
I've already
given you more time.
I thought I could trust you.
Of course you can trust me.
If it looks like
I've been compromised
by the relationship we had--
Had?
Paara, you don't mean that.
You've made your choice.
Now I have to make mine.
Joseph, take the food,
all of it.
Paara, wait.
Please.
Please!
- Hey, hey.
What's going on?
Yeah, no, no, no, wait.
We'll starve without this food.
Stop, OK?
Ah! Hey!
- Take all the food.
Hey, what the hell
you think you're doing?
Back up, back up now!
Back up.
Get back.
- Easy, easy.
Paara.
Get the food.
[frightened chatter]
♪
Paara, it doesn't
have to be this way.
♪
[slaves grunting]
Hey.
Come on.
Virgil.
Any news?
Yeah.
I talked to the
other prisoners.
I got a dozen of them on board.
I told them be ready
this afternoon.
Every time the Exiles change
shifts, they open the gate.
Four leave, four enter.
When that happens,
we rush the gate,
take out anyone
who's in our way.
You two, take that out.
You, go to tunnel three.
Let's go!
Dump that over there.
Dump that right there.
Move it!
Come on!
Eve.
Eve!
♪
Gavin.
[dramatic music]
I can't believe
you're actually here.
Yeah, I can't
believe it either.
How did--
How did this happen? What--
Izzy, is she OK?
She's fine.
Hey.
Did they hurt you?
- No, no.
I'm fine.
Gavin, I--
I have to
tell you something.
It's about Josh.
No, I know about 1988.
I made it to the clearing.
They told me everything.
We're gonna get Josh back
once we get out of here.
And we're gonna find
a way back home together.
As a family.
Gavin?
Levi.
- Hey.
How the hell
did you get here?
Went through
a sinkhole in Seattle.
Somehow it brought
me to Los Angeles.
So there's a way home.
No. No.
No, that portal closed.
But, hey, I have a way
we can get out of here.
♪
Great.
Back to square one.
And Eve isn't here to
lead a hunt this time.
If I have to go back
to eating mushrooms,
I'm gonna lose it.
Sam, can I have a word?
Look.
Normally, I'm not
one to point fingers.
But you should
have handed Silas over
when you had the chance.
I'm not apologizing
for trying
to get my daughter back.
You've endangered
the lives of everyone here.
Hey, you were a part
of the conversation.
We both agreed to let him go.
We need to survive
down here, Sam.
Paara was our best
shot of doing that.
We don't know the
land like they do.
Now her village will
never trust us again.
Oh.
No, you mean Paara will
never trust you again.
Sam, we are in trouble.
Look at what we have left.
There's maybe a day's
worth of food here.
A day's?
This won't last
till the afternoon.
Guys, we can deal
with this ourselves.
We'll live off the land--
hunt, fish.
Just like humans have done
for thousands of years.
Sam, I'm an accountant.
I mean, that guy over there,
he makes TikToks
about licking random objects.
We're not exactly cut out
to be hunter-gatherers.
You know what
else humans have done
for thousands of years?
Steal.
What are you saying?
I'm saying
we go to the village
and take our food back.
That will only make
a bad situation even worse.
On that, we agree.
Stealing from them is
a declaration of war.
OK. I know I'm new here,
but I'm not so much up for
a war with people
who have actual weapons.
Me neither.
I hate war.
But I kinda hate the idea
of us starving even more.
I'm with Lucas.
You are?
Stealing isn't an option.
Well, how about
we make it an option?
Take it to a vote.
Yeah, who here is against
starving to death?
- Yeah, let's do it.
- I am.
Huh?
OK.
And who thinks
instigating a war
with a heavily armed village
is a terrible idea that should
never be spoken of again?
- Me!
- Absolutely.
- Yep.
- Yeah.
- Absolutely.
- I--yeah.
Then it's final.
There'll be no stealing
from the village.
OK.
Y'all know who to blame
when you go hungry.
[sighs]
Hey.
What's up?
I just wanted to say thank
you again for saving my life.
Don't mention it.
Anyway, um, if you ever
need anything, just ask.
Thanks.
I'm--I'm good.
Lucas.
I'm really sorry
about your mom.
Oh.
Uh, yeah.
Me, too.
Lucas. Oh--
Am I interrupting something?
What do you need, Scott?
OK, so I was just
talking to Judah now,
and we don't care
about the vote.
We wanna go to the village
and take our food back.
What do you say?
You still in?
Hold on.
Sam just said--
Sam's not the boss down here.
OK, maybe he is.
Think of it as
an act of defiance.
So you want to pick
a fight with the people
that tried to kill you before?
You really think
that's a good idea?
Well, I am fairly hungry.
OK, not that I disagree
with you, Scott, but this is--
it's not exactly your MO.
What's your angle?
What? Angle?
I have no angle.
- Come on, dude.
You've been acting
weird ever since you got back
from your little trip
with Aldridge.
Tell me I'm wrong.
Look.
Am I scared?
Absolutely.
I'm not an idiot.
That's why I need you.
- All right.
- What?
It'll be fine.
We know where the fort's
secret entrance is
from last time.
No, it's way too dangerous!
Veronica, we will be in
and out before they know it.
Exactly.
What?
Fine.
Then I'm coming, too.
- Really?
- Yeah.
Like I said, you saved my life.
OK.
And just like that,
we have a crew.
♪
The main entrance
to the cave is here.
This back tunnel
is the only other exit.
We just have to make sure
we get there without being
noticed by the guards.
How did you get your
hands on this map?
Silas gave it to me.
- But then we can't trust--
- Levi.
I know he's your grandfather,
but he was willing to let
Josh and Izzy die.
He's not a good person.
- OK.
I wouldn't have made
it to you without him.
OK? I'm not saying
I forgive what he's done.
But I do believe this is real.
Let's say that it is.
To get to the back tunnels
is not gonna be easy.
The Exiles are everywhere.
They're mining every inch
of this place.
You know, I've seen
that rock before.
The village I grew up in
used it as a fuel source.
They're mining
tons of it here.
I wonder what
they're using it for.
All we know is that they're
transporting it somewhere.
We don't know where.
We don't know why.
Listen.
I--I just can't put our hopes
of getting out of here
on Silas's word.
OK.
So you guys have a better idea?
Yeah, we do.
Every day, when the
guards change shifts,
they open that gate.
The next time they do,
one of the prisoners
is gonna fake
a heart attack.
We're going to take that
chance to overwhelm them
and then make a run for it.
No, that sounds risky.
We've already got
a dozen prisoners on board.
There's more of us
than there are of them.
But if we use the map,
no one gets hurt.
- [sighs]
- What do you think, Eve?
[sighs]
I don't trust Silas.
I'm sorry.
I don't.
OK, fine.
So how can I help?
[guards shouting]
Wait for my signal.
♪
You good?
Yeah.
Listen, I appreciate
you getting
on board with this plan,
I do.
- Of course.
- Thank you.
Yeah.
Gavin, you seem different.
In a good way, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, in a good way.
Like the person I used to know.
It--
It suits you.
- Eve,
it's gonna be OK.
Shift change.
Let's go.
All right, you two.
It's time to take a break.
- Let's do it.
- Come on, let's go.
All done in tunnel 5.
Hey, I need you to go down
in there with 'em, all right?
♪
[coughing, groaning]
Somebody help!
I think he's having
a heart attack!
What's going on in there?
Hey, get up!
Get up, old man!
[grunting]
[grunts]
Let's go!
[grunting]
Come on!
Go, go! Go, go, go!
[screaming]
[grunting]
[grunts]
Levi, they're
closing the gate!
Get everyone outside.
We'll meet you there.
OK. Be careful.
Come on, come on!
Go! Go!
Come on, let's move.
It's blocked.
Go, go, go! Come on!
♪
[grunting]
[both grunting]
[straining]
Levi, I can't hold it!
Grab that shovel.
Go, go!
[gears clanking]
- It's not holding.
- Go.
Levi, go.
I'm not leaving you.
Go with Eve--
- No, Gavin.
Levi, go!
Go. Go!
♪
[grunting]
Where's Gavin?
He's coming.
[straining]
♪
[panting] OK. OK.
Everyone, grab a weapon. Move.
- Come on!
- Go, go, go, go!
- Go, go!
Come on!
[horses neighing]
♪
Damn it.
Drop your weapons.
I said, drop 'em.
Guys, we're outnumbered.
[weapons clattering]
All of you, on your knees!
Do we look like fools to you?
You think we're stupid enough
to just let you escape?
Take them to the cells.
Punish them all!
Wait! Hey.
Wait, wait!
It was all my idea.
Punish me, and let
anyone else go.
- Gavin, no.
- Don't do this.
Don't do this!
Big, strong man.
Think you're brave?
Is that it?
I think, if you
punish everyone,
you'll have no
one left to work.
But you can make an
example out of me.
[intense music]
♪
Put the rest of them to work.
But not him.
Take him.
♪
- [grunts]
- Gavin!
Gavin!
12 paces left,
17 paces right,
13 paces straight.
12 paces left, 17 paces right,
What are you saying?
Nothing.
Just a nervous habit.
You know, you don't have
to go through with this.
I'm afraid the train's
already left the station.
Why is this so
important to you?
Come on.
I know there's more going on.
- I have my reasons.
- Which are?
Complicated.
You really are persistent.
You know that?
- Mm-hmm.
Look,
I just care about you guys,
about everyone in the clearing.
I want to protect them.
It's something that I
haven't always excelled at.
[chatter]
Whoa!
Hey, hey, hey.
Get down, get down, get down.
OK.
So that's the front gate.
Secret entrance is
around the side.
Let's go.
♪
Stay low.
[grunting]
Get down, get down.
Get down, get down!
OK, move, move.
Shh.
[branch cracks]
[groaning]
- Jesus.
- Are you OK?
- My ankle.
No.
Come on, get up.
Can you walk?
Ah!
I can't.
You guys go on without me.
No, we can't just
leave you here.
It's OK.
I'll--I'll keep out of
sight till you're back.
Hey, hey, hey.
Scott, do not get caught.
Understand?
- Yeah.
Thanks for that.
I'll be fine.
- Yeah?
Yeah.
12 steps left.
17 steps right.
13 steps straight.
[grunting]
I know you didn't plan
that escape by yourself.
It was only me.
It was only me!
You're either
brave or stupid!
[speaking native language]
Wait, wait, wait.
You--you're Tongva.
People in the village
that I grew up in,
they spoke your language.
What's your name?
My name is Taamet, but
that's none of your concern.
Wait, Taamet.
Taamet, hey.
Hey, Taamet.
Taamet, the Tongva that
I knew, they were kind.
They were peaceful.
They were compassionate.
They were good people.
What's someone
like you, a Tongva,
doing here with the Exiles?
You think I'm gonna
tell you my story,
and then we'll become friends,
and I'll let you go?
You think I'm stupid like you?
No, no. No, no, no.
Of course not.
But I have a family
that I have to get back to,
that need me.
And I know that's something
that you understand.
I promise you,
you will die here.
And you will never
see your family again.
Taamet.
Teach him a lesson.
Taamet!
Please, don't!
Come on, come on.
It's just up there.
Come on.
Why are we stopping?
Let's just go.
They're gonna see us.
Hey.
Lucas?
Come on!
Ahh!
[gunshot]
- That's him.
- Who?
[grunting]
Ah!
That's the guy
who killed my mom.
♪
What are you gonna do?
I'm gonna kill him.
Lucas, let's just
talk about this.
No, there's nothing
to talk about. Get out my way.
No, this isn't
gonna fix anything.
- Veronica.
- Hey.
Veronica, please.
Just get out of my way.
- Look, I know. I know.
I know that you're
grieving Marybeth,
and if I had to guess,
you probably blame yourself
for what happened, right?
But killing this guy
won't change that.
No, you don't know what
you're talking about.
I do. I know!
I know what it's like
to feel guilt.
I know how it eats at you,
and how you'd do anything
to make it go away.
Even if you kill this guy,
that guilt's not gonna leave.
I promise you.
So let's just take
the food and go.
OK?
Lucas, please.
7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, 13.
I guess this is it.
[exhales]
OK, Silas, where'd you put it?
Oh, no.
Come on.
[gasps]
- I'm going in now.
Come out, come out,
wherever you are.
♪
[clattering]
[sighs]
That's what I'm talking about.
OK.
[thunder rumbles]
This can't be happening.
Gavin's gonna be OK.
He's tough.
[door opening]
- Get in.
- Gavin!
[grunts]
Ah. I--I could really
use some water.
OK.
[coughs]
[banging]
- Hey!
He needs some water
unless you don't want him
back working for you.
Make it quick.
You shouldn't have done that.
Better one of us
than everyone, right?
[exhales]
I didn't wanna
see you get hurt.
[crying]
What was that for?
Nothing.
You just remind me of
this kid I met down here.
He was really, really kind,
and brave.
And he left the
only home he ever knew
because some strange lady
told him he had to
save her family.
Guess he--he knew
he could trust her.
I've basically known
you your whole life.
Yeah.
You remember when we met,
as adults?
Yeah.
What did I say?
You said
it felt like
you had known me forever.
I guess I was right.
No wonder I fell in love
with you on the spot.
[sighs]
I know about Levi,
why he went to Germany.
He told me before he came down.
I don't blame you.
You lost faith in me.
I get that.
I let--I let you
and everyone down.
I'm gonna do what I can
to earn your trust back.
I am.
Whatever it takes.
And then when we get out of
here, and we get Josh back,
I want us to start again,
start over, just--
just be together as a family.
You and me.
Listen up!
I need everyone in tunnel 4.
Get over there now.
- Taamet.
- We hit a big deposit.
We need it mined in time for
the shipment to the tower.
Get all the
prisoners over there.
Do it now.
You, let's go.
Hey.
[grunts]
All the guards
are in tunnel 4.
No one's around.
This is our chance.
Let's use Gavin's map
and get out.
No, he can barely move.
No, no, no, no.
Levi's right.
We have to try.
[grunts]
- Easy.
I'm good, I'm good, I'm good.
- You sure?
- Yeah.
Let's get
the hell out of here.
[chatter]
You're still awake?
- Dad!
- [laughs]
Time for bed, my boy.
Come on.
[indistinct chatter]
There we go.
Good night, sweetheart.
[exhales]
Did you--
No.
What happened?
I just wanna
get out of here.
♪
[grunts]
OK, OK.
Hey, you're
about to pass out.
Sit down.
According to the map, we're
really close to the exit.
Stay with him.
I'll find out how
much further we are.
Yeah, go.
It's nothing compared
to Kandahar, right?
Hard to top flying a Herc out
of a canyon being chased
by Taliban on horses.
We made it out of that.
We'll make it out
of this mess, too.
We had each
other's backs then.
We still do.
You sure about that?
Over here!
Come on.
Come on, let's go.
Hey, we're close.
It's this way.
Let's go.
Come down here!
Don't move!
Hey.
♪
Your friends should
have left without you.
Maybe they would have made it.
Get out of the way. Now.
[shouting outside]
[both grunting]
If you were smart,
you would kill me now.
[grunts]
- Let's go.
- Come on.
Let's go!
Whoever said
crime doesn't pay
had no idea what they
were talking about.
Well, good job, my friends.
I'll see you later.
Hey.
[whistles]
Where are you going?
Just for a little walk.
What about your ankle?
I find that
moving around helps.
Looks like you
guys were busy.
What the hell did you do?
We took a vote.
Yes, we did.
This is serious, Lucas.
If the village finds
out what you did--
No one saw us.
You're part of this, too?
Oh my God, Ty.
We were all hungry,
so we did what we had to do.
There's gonna
be a price to pay.
Yeah, well, that sounds
like a tomorrow problem to me.
Today, we get to eat.
Have at it.
[branches cracking]
- Whoa.
Scott.
Oh, thank God.
I thought I was going the right
way, but all of these trees
look the same.
Do you have what I asked for?
Listen, I just wanted to
thank you for coming today.
If you weren't there, I don't
know what I would have done.
Can I ask you something?
You wanna know
why I let that guy go.
Yeah.
I wanted to kill him.
I still do.
He was with his family--
his wife,
and a little kid.
Couldn't stop thinking
about my dad,
how he died.
I can't do that to another kid.
Your mom would be proud.
Yeah.
I don't know about that.
You know, I'm not happy.
I had to lie to my
friends, fake an injury,
sneak into Silas's hut,
and commit a 10,000 BC
food heist to get this.
But here it is.
You did well.
Thanks.
Though I gotta admit,
keeping secrets
isn't exactly my forte.
Well, I'm afraid you're
gonna have to keep this one
a little while longer.
No, no, no.
Aldridge, I'm tired
of lying to my friends.
I am trying to protect
your friends, Scott.
This is the only way
I can keep them safe.
Listen, everything is
moving into its right place.
I just need you to be patient.
So what now?
Our first attempt at getting
into the building failed.
But there is another way,
and this will help
get us where we need to go.
[scoffs]
And what do we do
when we get there?
Several things
need to be accomplished,
one of which
is getting your friends
Josh and Riley back.
Wait a second.
You've known how to get
them back the entire time,
and you didn't tell me?
I tell you what
you need to know, Scott.
Unbelievable!
What you need to do now is go
back to the clearing and wait.
What am I waiting for?
For Gavin.
♪
You all right?
Wanna rest?
No, no, no. I--
Everything hurts, but, uh,
it could have been worse.
Something you
guys should know.
I overheard
the guards talking,
said they were taking a
shipment of rock to the tower.
Tower?
You think that's the building
that Silas was talking about?
Whoever is in
the building must be
using it as a fuel source.
Well, what are the
Exiles getting out of it?
Good question.
And we need to be prepared in
case they come looking for us.
- Yeah.
- And what about Virgil
and the others?
We need to help them.
They're still stuck
in that place.
We can make a plan
as soon as we get back.
We're almost there.
- Eve?
- Yeah?
Hey, before you get there,
there's--
look, there's something
I need to tell you.
What?
It's about Izzy.
You said Izzy was fine.
Izzy is fine.
She is.
What?
You're gonna
see for yourself.
What do you mean?
She's here.
She came with me
♪
Izzy!
Mom? Mom?
♪
Izzy.
I decided I was never
gonna see you again.
♪
[laughs]
- I love you.
I love you.
You're OK.
♪